according to the clause.
Okay.
704 call to order the Donna boarding
special meeting for Thursday, April
24th. Our first order of business is the
pledge of
allegiance to the
flag to the father stands one nation
non talking
individuals. Please be nice to
employees.
Kathy Roger. Um Kathy Roger
232. I would like the uh board of select
to read in the letter from the
chairperson of the commission on aging.
Um I think that would be important
relevant to the people that are here.
have not received that all the selected
members.
But that will
be right now
after I don't have it right with me.
So the purpose of this meeting is to
discuss the
contracts of our
foreman and our community center person.
You take one at a time
or do both of them or how would you
process? You're in public speak. You do
what you want.
Okay. Well,
well, well, as I said at the budget
meeting, our public works department is
uh a little a little top heavy. For many
years, we operated with three public
works
people. Now, we have five that has
occurred in the last several years. And
now we have a $90,000 foreman and four
guys making 50 $60,000 a year. We've
spent um probably close to a million
dollars on vehicles, back homes,
transportation, and other equipment with
public works, including their
$250,000 boom flail. Um and I find it to
be a little bit difficult for a small
town like us, which has no population
growth, no additional roads, um to
address these level of salaries. They're
very salary friendly in this town. So, I
would like to speak. Um, now Jay, our
portman wants a two-year contract. Is
that what we're looking at?
Yes. Yes. Two contract. How much per
year?
$96,000.
Uh, no. I have it rained on um
$94,694 in in 2024 and a 3% increase
each year. and he's looking to Will you
Tom administrator suggested a two-year
contract? That's a request now. Just
keep going. Yeah, that's the request.
Okay. Well, I think it's it's far too
generous, you know, and I think that if
our foreman um who's maybe having issues
with his retirement state, he's made
some changes. Um he's pretty well paid.
if he thinks he can do make a better
deal somewhere then I think he should
he's a could be a free agent. Well, I
would like to uh say that I think
salaries I try to back in the motion of
the budget hearing which didn't pass
unfortunately to reduce the salary of
public works and uh I don't think so of
that. I don't I think that we're
approaching a situation
where
affordable we have seen our budget go
from 12 million or less than that to
over 13 million. Um we have
I don't see the roads being done that
much better. Um maybe there's been
things I don't see, but I'd like to
speak in I would like to see a more
modest contract for our our for the
Republican committee deal. Now, on to
the community center. Um and again,
correct me if I'm wrong, she's currently
making 43,000, work 26 hours a week.
Does that
say that's accurate? Go ahead. Keep
going. Okay. So, she's on target to be
given increase to what this coming,000.
What's your record? Keep going.
26 hours a week. What are her
hours? Does she work 9 to2 Monday to
Friday? What are her hours? Yes, that's
her hours. You actually got something
correct. Yes.
Beautiful. Um, and then we have the
part-time person. There are very
very
few activities that more download. Okay.
Woman's making $35 an hour. And now
granted, she does make doctor's
appointments for people and take care of
that. That there is a value in that. But
we also, and that came out at the at the
budget meeting, we are our assistant
assessor getting a $6,000 stipen for
being the senior municipal agent, which
in most
towns the community director takes care
of. So, we got some double dipping going
on. We have high salaries and I would
respectfully uh submit that the uh that
our community director is uh underworked
and
overpaid and I think that since taking
into consideration that what kind of
programs has she brought forth that she
really brought forth any new programs?
You have an answer to that or you're
just gonna I'll answer that
question. Anyway, I think that u our
salaries are partly generous. I think
both the community director and the
foreman should be looked at closely and
u I'm opposed to any
significant. Yes, Michelle. Yes. I my
name is Michelle Bale. I live at 189
Lake Road. I like to talk about the
contract that Jay has. Um, when we were
just three town people working in the
busy yard, it was very difficult if the
tree went down to get them to come out.
There's snow removal. But now that we
have five, I have easier access. I can
pull my bus over and call or text Jay
and say, "Bus two is on Windrush and
there's a tree down or bus three is here
and bus three and he'll send somebody
over because if the bus can't get
through, the kids can't get picked up
and go to school." And I really trust
what Jay says. He tells me it's going to
be a bad day. I think two years ago we
had a the rain was going sideways. The
bus company told me, "You need to go
out." Jay's like, "No, you can't go out.
The rain is moving sideways. There's too
many trees down." And we still could.
And then they wind up cancelling school.
I don't have the degree or know the
specifics on how town's run, but I know
since we've upgraded to five people, the
town rules seem to get more access. And
I know they're being playing catchup for
the last 10 years of trees not being
taken down prior to trimming and so
forth. For the community center, I know
it's brand new. I don't know the
specifics. I know somebody needs to run
it. I know that pretty soon I would like
to have gatherings there. I don't know
the specifics and I know that if the
town knew, hey, you can have a gathering
there. Somebody has to put it together.
My mom is a senior. pretty soon she's
not going to be driving. I have to make
a decision to call the town to have
somebody make those um arrangements for
her to go. So, I'm not sure what her
salary is, but if it's in the budget, I
believe it should stay. And if she's
working hard, I am not the one to judge.
I'm sure if I had that job, like with my
job, was that safe?
Nobody thinks they make enough, but I
believe if you're doing the work and
you're working hard, you should be paid
for it.
Julie, I'm just That's okay.
I
um want to speak first to um Tess
position. She's basically doing a bangup
job. She started
having Palazi retired to put on a much
more varied schedule for all seniors and
um now she's putting out a very nice
newsletter on a monthly basis. There are
a lot a variety of kinds of activities
that we can go through. We have a person
who moved into Sue Loy's house
fortunately who was a very good yoga
teacher and there's a whole bunch of us
who take it can't get up off the floor.
So we do it in a chair. So there's chair
yoga and there's a special class to help
those of us who if we fall and get on
the floor cannot get up by ourselves.
But that's a Wednesday class. And then
there's a pinñana type. I'm not sure
what that is. I think it's the most
strength science of yoga. And this is
her very uh welcome together newsletter
that she puts out. And
um she is on a track to provide the
kinds of activities that I was taking
advantage of in Bolton because anybody
from Andover could go to Bolton and they
didn't even charge a one-time
membership. I was also going to Vernon
And um I paid $15 for a lifetime
membership and they put out a program
too. It has a lot more print in it
because they've been going 25 years.
Both of those senior centers and she's
on
track to grow the way they have already
grown. We now can get haircut here. And
for those who don't drive, that's a big
up. Um you can get um foot care now. All
of these are new. Every month there's a
new
uh addition of activities and a dog may
not be ready for this yet. But there'll
be a time when we'll have card games
there and other kinds of activities that
you can't even imagine yet because
probably not. You may have visited
senior centers, the people who built
this, but they have no idea what it's
like. Unless you actually enroll and go
there. There are many many kinds of
presentations done to help seniors just
with interaction and socializing. They
have um activities in the big centers
too that provide the
um
physical help like the yoga does. and um
social activities where people come for
dessert and they have a speaker or a
piano player and it's just a night out
for seniors who are housebound and
it's really a known fact at least by
United
Healthcare I
senior that these kinds of activities
extend senior citizens lives and make
their lives more interesting because
they're living alone most of them not
all and That's true of any other centers
and they also um are she is also helping
us to work up to day trips like we did
go to the heart flower show and that was
very much a a positive um thing that
happened and we had a full bus when we
went. So I c I can only say that she in
the time she's had me um she's been
operating without the help of Kathy
Palazi things have really started moving
in a very good direction there and
they're going to end up like we're going
to end up like both of them. Um and
there are other things that we need to
do though is we need to stop having the
door open with a key and in
um places that I've mentioned nearby.
Well, I'll talk about furniture in
particular. You pay $15 in a lifetime
membership and you get a lanyard with
your picture. They take your picture and
outside the door there's no use of the
key. Everybody who goes there has a
lanyard with their picture on it. They
hold it up to this reader. The door
flicks open. You go
outside, close it, and it's locked. So,
there's no risk because they have about
five outside
doors. We have two. Um, it's something
we got to think
about. But I can only say that she's
doing a wonderful job. She couldn't
bribe me to say this. I have been trying
all the different things. Um when the uh
other senior group and it was always a
mystery on the words that I've done to
what these two groups do there was the
dinners and then there was a group that
had movies and big
partn senior as I am now but now that
has been melded into the activities that
belong here and bingo
and birthdays is one of for really
comprehending events and it's a lot of
fun and I never thought I'd be the
person to say that but I've been
enjoying it tremendously and I have old
Linda Vernon one to compare to and she's
on her way to be right up there with
some good ones and they've been in
business 25 years only been doing this
for what six months and part of that six
months the dinners were still done by
so it's Um, two things. Um, Kathy, can
you sit there and please email me the
letter?
All right. And they're offering free
haircuts at the center. I think you
might want to take
We got to give me a zinger. I would
um
Okay. Did you have it? Uh, I did not see
it on my Can I say one more thing, but
let's
go. I've been working at the center for
a few months now, assistant. I do
approximately 10 hours a week. And what
you see going on there is that we're a
work in progress. We're just starting to
get like evening programs going on and
that's something that the community
wants for people of all ages. So we have
a lot of ideas out there. We're
recruiting volunteers. So hopefully
we'll see a lot more of everyone in town
show up there. And we're always open to
new ideas, different things you want to
have there. We're thinking like a family
bingo night, movie night for kids. Uh
we're not gonna be three babysitters,
but yeah, bring your kids along and uh
we got a lot of things to get going.
I
just got it. But um I'm sorry. Are you
done? I
done that was wonderful. you got the
first gold star in the 90s on
build marathon road and um so I want to
speak on behalf of Jay um a lot of
people may or may not read but the roads
before Jay were a campus there were a
few roads in town the old administrator
lived on that were pretty good shape but
the north side north side of six feet I
thought right now was the chance my road
had been touched over eight years Now, I
know that every road in town has been
addressed since Jay's been in office. He
has a plan that shows each road, the
condition it's in, what needs to be
done, when be done. It's not just, well,
he's a planning over here, so we'll go
to that room now. He's got a plan. He's
got a plan for the equipment, looking
out 20, 30 years of when that equipment
needs to be replaced. Not like, oh, the
truck should be bad. How we going to
find the money to replace that truck?
There was a 30-year plan looking at when
how old each piece of equipment is, what
it needs to be replaced, what the life
is left on it. He is a professional
uh road group, our director of public
works. He the roads are in the best
shape. They're lined every year. The the
brush to cut back every year. The line
the mo the mowing's done every year. The
gutters are cleaned out. Clovers are
cleaned out. Signage is up to date. The
trees are coming down. We have never had
such a good and I've lived here for 40
one or two years now. We've never had a
good road crew as we have today. I love
what we have with Jay and that we have
today. So I would hate to see anything
happen. If his contract wasn't renewed,
I call it being fired. Why would you
fire the job he's doing? I'd love to
look back.
I'll talk
after kind of New Town for years. I live
on air for me.
Um, couple things I want to say. I have
two little kids and we're actually
thinking about doing some birthday
parties here at the uh community center.
So, we wanted to know what we're allowed
to do, what we're not allowed to do.
invite some of our uh my son's little
friends as
well. So, we're planning on doing that.
Um also um get a nice shot taking down
some trees that I put a request in that
was endangered swamp. I was pregnant at
the time. I was afraid that it comes
down stuck there especially neighbors.
So, that was taken care of. Really nice
shot. Thank you. Um, regarding the
roads, I know that the school is eating
our lunch on the budget and that's why
we can't get to those roads. Um, and
another thing is someone making 47,000
that's I mean four times as much. I had
trouble paying my bills sometimes,
especially without bill that give away
30% for our money to people that so
$47,000. Um and um another thing is um I
think um the crew I've seen them cutting
the long stuff. They're doing a great
job. You guys have done a great job.
This town is small. Um it doesn't need
to grow like over landing and stuff like
that. People live here for a reason.
They're in the in the suburbs and having
acreage. That's why I move here. Um so
taxes are not terrible at all. I live in
town so it affects a lot more than that
as much as they do here. So that's all I
had to say. All right. Thank you.
Um, first of all, I want to apologize to
the people online because I'm not sure
how well you hear us, but I'm going to
also give you the opportunity to speak.
So, if we can move through it, Jerry
Corme, you can go first because you're
in the upper left.
Can you hear? Yes. Yes. Go ahead. Right.
Right. Um, I
just Shannon's in the other room. Ask
her to put that on mute.
I did. Okay. Can you hear this? Hear me
without the echoing.
Yeah, you're better. Okay. Thank you. I
appreciate the meeting that you're
having, the work that you do, and the
time that you spend.
It's difficult with the things that
aren't involving payroll or employees or
contracts.
Unfortunately, you're faced with the
choices of handling those
items. I have complete faith and trust
the board of selectmen will make the
right
choices. Keep
going. That's it. Okay. Great. Thank
you.
Thank you very much. I hope you can hear
me.
Okay. Uh again, thank you for having
this um meeting both uh uh making it
available for uh Zoom so that uh people
like myself can join in and it is a
little difficult hearing
um but I I'm working on it. But I did
want to have a few things to say. One is
um in support of Jay Jay Tuttle. I think
he does a great job. Um I'm loving the
fact that so many trees have been taken
down. Um we hardly lose power at all
over at our place now. Um the the road
work is great. Uh I love the snow plow
sign um sign out in front of the public
works department. I think it looks very
professional and it's a good look for
Andover and I I think it makes a very
positive statement about our town. Um I
I good job good job done there. Um I
delighted with um the cleanup of the uh
public works garage that uh Jay
undertook. I mean that was a disgusting
mess over there and now it um it looks
good. It's uh very professional and
that's the kind of thing I I like to see
come to Andover. I think we're we're
lucky to have him and um I'm I'm happy
to hear that he's postponing his
retirement so he can continue serving
the town of Andover. Um I'm sure I
wouldn't have made that same decision.
Um I think retirement is the best job I
ever had. Um but I applaud him for doing
that and continuing to serve the town. I
I think that's wonderful and I um hope
that you do plan to extend his contract.
As for the p the um director of the
community/cenior center, um I again
support uh Tess, I I've spoke to the
board of selectment about this at the
last meeting. Um I think that she was
given a gigantic job. um given a
building that was half completed with no
policy, no proc no procedures, part-time
um position and getting this up and
running is a a massive job. And not only
dealing with uh the building, but the
grants and programs and just the
transportation issues alone is a
gigantic job, the lunchons, the
newsletter. Um, I I think that uh you've
given her a a big job to do and um I I
hope that you you continue with her so
that uh we can get uh more things done
as uh as time goes by. So again, my
support for for both of these people.
And my final comment is I'm not quite
sure why we have public discussion, a
public meeting about the contracts for
these people, why this is happening. So
that's just my two cents and leaves me
confused, but I'm easily confused. So
thank you very much once again. I
appreciate the time you all take do for
this.
Who are you asking for? Oh, no. Joan, I
didn't get to you yet. Shannon,
you know I'm impersonating Anne Cre,
right? Yes, we know that. Okay. Jerry
and I got confused with our computers.
Um, thank you. The only thing I want to
say is um not so much to the contracts,
but the fact that I would love to see
our community and senior center have a
lot more community events. Um I I just
don't I see a lot of senior events.
Wonderful. Um but I really think it
should be a community center and would
love to see a lot more community um
events for families, for younger kids,
especially as the summer is coming up.
um be offered through the center. Thank
you,
Kimberly.
And nothing right now. Thank you,
Joanne.
Thank you, Jeff. I just wanted to say a
couple things. I know I said a lot at
your meeting um last week, so I won't
repeat myself. Um, no matter what
happens tonight, I just want to tell the
board of selectmen that I really
appreciate this process and the time
that you are putting into these two
important contracts in our town. Um,
like I said, went to the meeting last
week, had my say a little bit, gave a
couple of opinions, and then all of you
met for two hours in an executive
session cuz I was out in the hallway.
So, I know that you have done your due
diligence. you're taking, you know, both
of these important roles so seriously
with all the questions that have come
up. Um, so I really appreciate that. I
also would like to just say, um, and I
hope you I had to leave after that two
hours, so I know you were still in
executive session, so I know it went on
and on. Um, the other thing I wanted to
say is that because these two positions
are, you know, kind of management level
positions, I appreciate that you have
individual contracts like this. I think
that's important. Um, I don't think
these type of positions should ever be
in a union because they do manage union
employees. Um, or you know, I know that
the senior center community center
director is so new. Um, so that's a
little different, but again, I like the
individualized contract so that you can
pick and choose which, you know, things
or perks you want to put in each one.
That being said, I know that that
community center director position slash
senior center also is a part-time
position. So, I would like to see maybe
a few and and again, this is just my
opinion. You're going to do what you
want and I respect it. You know, maybe a
full-time position would have more perks
because they're a full-time person. If a
person wants to work part-time, maybe a
few less perks in that kind of contract
that you guys are drawing up. I'd also
like to just put in my two cents that I
think they should be yearly and not two
years. Um, again, your decision. You all
are meeting and making the decisions. I
just think people work well with a
year-to-year position. That way, you get
to kind of um maybe make some changes or
whatever year to year as you see fit as
well. But again, thank you so much for
this process. Thank you for inviting the
public into it and I'm glad I logged in
tonight. I'm hoping after your executive
decisions, you know, discussions, we get
a little bit of feedback of what you're
planning on doing. So, good luck.
[Music]
Did you say Louise?
I did. Okay. Thank you. Um, I'm here to
support basically both Jay and Tess. Um,
I'll keep it short and sweet. Uh Jay was
very very helpful for me personally when
I came into town and I started doing my
new driveway and he was very effective
with the contractor I was dealing with.
Uh very professional and very helpful
and I would hate to see him go. As far
as Tess is concerned, um Tess has been
very sympathetic and helpful and
cheerful and very resourceful. Um the
way she deals with seniors is very very
um um professional professional and also
very down to earth which the seniors
love. Um as far as the software I would
love to see her get that eventually
because that would help out a lot for
her to do her other duties. She is
always leaving after the 2 o'clock for
the most part. after the 2:00 for a lot
of these events that are happening
there. She never gets out the door any
earlier than that time frame and she's
happy to stay. Um I'm sure she'd be
happier if if things are a lot easier
for her. And as far as the and she also
has a very open door policy. Anybody can
go in there and talk to her. And as far
as the um community part of the
community center, we would love to see
more volunteers. And when I say we, I'm
a volunteer there. And we need more. We
need not just seniors, but we need those
in the community, uh, mothers, fathers,
whoever can help out and, you know, give
give
the examples of what can be done in the
evenings and maybe help set it up and
even help do some of it. It's a
part-time thing. I mean it's very
part-time and we she and everyone else
would welcome you know whatever
information they could give. So and
again supporting both Jay and Tess. Um I
hope they continue and thanks for your
time.
Thank you. Um I don't know who is the
owner unless that is Dennis O'Brien.
Yes, that is me.
Dennis, I'm not letting you talk. You're
not. That's probably smart. Do you have
anything you want to say?
No, not not at this point. All right.
Thank you.
Um, I covered everyone. Correct. Anyone
on the screen? Good. All right. I'm
going to read this letter. Um, this
letter is from the commission on
a drafted by
Bukart. I'll just read the whole thing.
So attached to the minutes from our last
commission on AG April 21st, past few
months, there have been a lack of
support for needed software to run the
run and report on all that goes on at
the community center senior community
senior
center. As the commission on aging, we
need to express our support for this
software and anything necessary to have
a successful center. As you will see
from the minutes, there are several
activities and services that go on at
the centers thanks to Tus Grouch and Kim
Hall and all the work they have put into
it. We all highly support Tess Kim and
Robera and praise them for all the work
they have done with the resources they
have. On a personal note, I would not be
I will not be able to attend the board
of selective meeting on Thursday because
I have a cert meeting and sustainable
Connecticut meeting at the same time. I
can't be three places at once. I wanted
to express my shock at the board of
selecting and board of finance efforts
to impede forward progress being made
for our seniors and the community at our
new center. I don't know what the
ultimate agenda is, but it certainly
doesn't appear to be successfully
supporting the center. We all worked
very hard for this center to exist and
cutting off funds necessary for things
to move forward is a step backwards. The
attacks on our hardworking,
well-intentioned staff that support the
seniors has got to stop. And the money
needed to run a successful center needs
to be found. The infighting between the
board of select and the board of finance
needs to stop. The boards need to meet
together to carve out how to work with
each other for our town, not against it.
Elaine Bukart, chairman of the
commission on aging in
EDC. Okay.
So that concludes public
speak. No,
one more thing, please.
No, I mean, I'm sorry. It's 7:37. I love
all of you. You all had your chance. I
didn't even cut
down.
Right. These poor people are sitting
here waiting for this meeting to happen.
I apologize sincerely. Not because you
guys are talking public speak. Yeah, we
have public state at the end, but their
employees, they need to get the heck out
of it. Right. So, we're going to move on
to item three on the agenda. Discuss and
act upon the proposed Department of
Public Works supervisor contract. Jay,
would you like this in executive session
or in
We can do it public. Okay. We're in
public so far. So, let's go. It's in
public. Um, we all have copy of his
contract. We do, but I just want to make
sure he understands that we're making
questions
about things like things that are going
to be talked about talk about your
dollar in the contract. It's all public
record. Anyway, do you have a problem
with that? No.
Okay.
Um, we all have copies of the contract,
correct? We read it.
Um the contract that is being discussed
for 2025 and six is is exactly the same
as 2023 with the exception of section
three that we need to discuss in section
8 to remove the annual increases that
could be given because in the past we
gave annual increases. It was in the
contract in section 8 that if we felt
this performance generated it, it was
given increased rate just like we give
to all non
union. So anyone have questions for Jay?
I do. Let's go. Okay. So in the first
year you were hired at 85,000, right?
for two years and like said no
additional overtime compensation. But
then there was a
7.12% increase between this contract and
your
next 2year contract
um because you jumped from 85 to
052. And then if we go from this
contract to the one that's proposed,
it's another 70% increase. So I'm just
asking these first two contracts were
most definitely two years.
Were you given a raise in
between like year one and year two on
this $85,000 contract? And how Okay. So,
well, Eric sent us an email with all
that information. I did not get an
email.
So, I I don't know when that was sent,
but I did ask you about not you. I did
ask you, Jeff, about that last week and
then this one. So, it does look like
it's 7%. No, it was it was a 3% raise
most of the years and then one two years
he got 4% just like every other employee
at that time. But they're two-year
contracts, right? Correct. But what
ended up
happening? I thought it everybody. He
said two
email. You're correct. I asked for it. I
checked mine all day.
Well, Jeff asked for it. I respond. I
did. I did ask for but please in the
future if you just send the word. Okay.
So, so
I'll
ask Listen, I will read off for you. Jay
started with us in 2020. He started with
$85,000 and he got a 0% increase at the
end at the end of the first year into
2021. Right. He was hired December 21st,
2021 or 2020, I'm sorry, 2020. So 85,000
and into the first year, we didn't give
him an increase. And then in the next
budget year, we moved him up 3% that got
him to
87,550. In 2023, that budget year, he
got a 4% increase and all approved by
the board of selectment. 4% increase.
2024, he got a 4% increase. It moved him
up to 94,694.
And the 2year contract that's in front
of us is for a 3% increase which would
move him to 97,534.
Okay. So this first year he went from 85
to 87 because well
not the second started the second
year got to 4%. Okay.
Okay. So then when he started this
second contract in
2023 where it says
section 8, let's just read section 8.
Okay. So if you have the previous year's
contract any
performance valuation annual review they
can increase the in
Can I just ask one more question? You
ask every question that you want. Okay.
Because then the start of the 2023
contract is at
91 052. So why would that
be? So in in
because you we went through the budget
cycle. So, okay, if you sit there and
you go in the beginning of the contract
that was signed
1120223 which was retroactive to July of
that budget per year, right? July one he
was making 91,052.
Okay. Right. He got a
raise of 4% that
year. approved by the board of
selectment because again I was going to
read the contract language so everybody
sees it or hears it.
Um
11:23 section
eight. Section 8 says performance
evaluation. Section 8. The board of
selectment and town administrator shall
perform an annual review of the work
performance of the employee and if they
so determine they may increase the
annual salary of the employee beginning
with the annual budget of the town.
That's in section eight.
So Eric would prepare the budget. We
would talk about non union employees
salary increases at that time and at
that time last year we gave Jay a 4%
raise because we deemed his service to
the town valuable enough to give him
that increase. So if I take
91,000
91,452 and I multiply it by 3% that
gives me
273156. That was Jay's increase. I add
that back to the
91,052 and I get a total of Oh, I'm
sorry. I did that wrong. I mean, I did
that wrong. It was four%. 4%. Thank you
everybody.
Yeah.
Oh, I
got you. 1052. I don't think it
Yeah. 9,000
94,69408 that was his compensation. So
4% raise sorry 4% raise that's what he
was on the books and in the budget for
2024. So the request for 2025 2026 is a
3% raise. My only concern Jay honestly
the only thing that I have that I'm
concerned is is us here at this board
agreeing to two years on the number. The
reason why I was always left blank was
because we always had to re-evaluate and
go for the budget number. You know that
that that is my only concern about this
entire thing because all my questions to
you would be do I think you're doing a
good enough job for the community in the
position that you're in. I would say
yes. Does everybody else on the board
think that? I don't. But the only thing
I have when I read the contracts and
compared to what Eric has drafted or at
the time attorney has drafted, the only
changes were really section 8, they
removed the annual increase information.
And you sat there and said compensation
was 3% annual increase for both fiscal
years.
That was it. Yeah. After a two-year
contract. Two year contract. Yeah.
Normally in our situation, you can't
really do it guaranteed two-year
contract with guaranteed graes because
you have to go through the budget
process with a quarter. That's my
only agree.
Yeah. Do I sit there and look at you and
say I give you a 3%? Yes, I would. And I
will I put it would I put it in front of
the board of finance? Yes, I would. But
there's there's differences that work.
Yeah.
That's the only issue for me. Another
thing to mention is the public works
contract is going to be up next year and
those increases are not negotiated yet.
No. So we don't know what those
increases are going to be because I
would like to keep you know whatever
they're getting keep it somewhat in line
with what public works in general. Yeah.
I don't think we necessarily follow the
contract with J. Um you would know that
this year this year for public works.
Okay. Okay. Um, does anyone have I'm the
on board. Anyone here have any issues
related to his performance and what he
does for the community? No.
Okay. Do we want to just make this a
oneear contract with 3% and we'll be we
do it again next year? Jay, you have a
problem with that? Um, and and the
reason the only reason I'm asking is
because I can sit there and tell you
it's my vote. I would give you the
two-year contract, but I'm gonna have
someone like Joanne Eert sit there and
say that you can't do that because you
need to go to the board of finance and
do X, Y, and Z. Yeah, understood. Right.
Yeah.
So, yeah, I will tell you, Jay, you're
going to get your number, but we have to
and I will go to the account attorney.
What can we do in this situation? Dennis
O'Brien,
I don't I don't understand the question.
What are you saying? a two-year contract
or one-year contract. Correct. Do we as
the board of selectment have the ability
and the right to give him a two-year
contract with a guaranteed raise
with you mean because the board of
finance hasn't approved it as of this
point?
Correct. We need the board of finance to
approve it.
Not at this point. No. Board of Finance
is you're dealing for the board of
finance is dealing with this year's
budget. uh you know, they're not going
to deal with a future budget, I don't
believe.
Okay. All right. But but but I don't see
anything wrong with a two-year contract.
There's nothing wrong with a two-year
contract. We just have to change section
eight. I mean, nothing wrong legally.
You still have
you still have under the charter the the
town has lots of power even under this
contract to terminate the contract under
certain circumstances.
Okay. And probably if the board of
finance didn't fund the contract, you
could make an adjustment. This contract
would allow you to make an adjustment.
All right. Thank you. Go ahead, Mary.
So, per charter, the board of selectmen
sets pay in
compensation for non-union, non-elected
positions. That is your right. The only
thing the board of finance can do is
choose not to fund the position, but
they can't tell you
what, you know, they can't tell us not
to. Correct. They can reduce the overall
salary budget or salary for public works
if they so chose. That's within their
purview. and you would react how you
would react whether it's renegotiate a
contract or lay off an employee. Okay.
Well, my concern is if we put another
year two in the contract negotiation
coming up, will that impact? Yes. Yes.
Um, so given that we already have an
agreement for a 3% raise with the other
union, I
believe it's pretty unlikely that in the
next year you're going to be able to
negotiate anything other than that with
this union because both union contracts
come up two years apart. So I don't see
that
being I don't see there being a whole
lot of
choice with that unless there's some
other concession you know you're giving
as unless you want to take it to
arbitration. I I mean listen I I called
that out just from a technicality
standpoint. I wasn't really worried
about the 3% honestly. I personally
think
Jay listen we don't have a lot of money
as a town in total. So let's everybody
understand we don't have a lot of money
but we stretched our budget on town road
work
side pretty well. We are much more
organized than we were when I first got
on this board and I do attribute a lot
of that to your innovates your
organization. Do I want to do certain
things better? Sure. I would love to a
better fashion. I would I would love
more of a forecast. This is what we're
going to do or this is where the guys
are at. All of those things that I would
like as a as a as a
manager, but and understanding that
takes time. It takes time away
from, you know, a working It should be
should be supervisor. Okay. Um, listen,
I don't think we need to waste a
tremendous amount of his time. Unless
you want to make a statement. You don't
need to make statement. Don't make a
statement. Um, I have no problem
offering the two years. If you don't
want to want to do a one year, then it's
up to Jay whether what he does. I I
really don't have a problem with the way
the contract is drafted based upon what
Eric really is saying is that we're
going to have a public works position a
director in here. Whether we choose to
say we're going to give him 3% today or
3% in January to me doesn't really
matter. And and I know what you're
saying. I I called it out. I mean when I
read the contract I was like section 3
2026. I question that. So yeah, before
we just made it arbitrary, right?
Correct. Yeah. And I would support if
you made it arbitrary next
year and we decided on our budget season
next year. I would not guarantee the 3%
next year. I would support it this year,
but not because this is the budget
that's going to
Well, increase is
already talking about the
follow. This is on you. It's up to you,
right? I did I did in my head go that's
potentially an issue.
Um, but I would also sit there and say
that what Jay is doing is a little
different than most years in that he's
trying to position his his two years for
a final two years. Is that accurate? Are
you going to have be okay or you might
still say after two years? Uh,
no. Years. So, we need to both Yeah,
this is the end of your
killers,
you know. I mean, the part time may be a
thing, but uh yeah,
for sure. And who knows what two years
is going to bring to it, but now that's
my plan. With the old with the old
verbiage in there, have you ever been
short change?
No. Yes.
First budget here. Yeah, he was hired in
he was hired in December. Yeah. 6 months
made the decision that no raise was
appropriate
because I think he was doing better than
his predecessor.
I took I just so everybody understands I
mean you know in this public you know
publicly. So I did take a cut in pay
coming to Andover. I realized that you
know knowing full well what was and you
know I had hoped you know that my work
would performance would be uh you know
show my abilities and what what I can
bring to the town what value I can bring
to the town. um you know a lot of what
people read and see and even in this
contract talk from you know Monday to
Friday um you know and on call if
somebody calls me well that might have
happened in the beginning where somebody
would call me you know if something were
happen but I'm on the I'm on call
247 I have a pile of keys I have a phone
when I go on vacation I bring my work
with
There's very rarely have I gone on
vacation and not taken a phone call and
passed it along to my crew to the town's
crew. Something came up. If I give they
don't even want my phone just because
it's it's ringing off the hook all the
time. That's why I try to limit who has
my number. Um and uh so I respond in the
winter time. you
know, you're working 20, 30 hours. Well,
I only, you know, I'm there for the aid
and then the rest of the time is on me.
That's part of this job. This is what
this job requires. Um, all the towns
have these type of positions
and I'm in a little bit of a unique
situation because and there's not too
many towns because it is a a working
supervisor's position. So, I'm filling
in when somebody's out. I perform work
when I can and chip in a lot of and and
I do a lot of the odd jobs myself if I
can do them. And I have to take care of
the management end of things at the same
time. So, there's a lot that goes with
this job. It's just not what is read on
this piece of paper on the contract. So,
um there's more to it, I think. Um, I
just kind
of understood.
Okay. Anyone else have any questions for
Jay that we need to get
addressed?
Um, I I'll make a motion that we approve
the contract as drafted with the
two-year contract with 3% for both
fiscal years.
Further
discussion. All those in favor?
I
suppose.
Okay. I support the original. All right.
Make a motion.
[Music]
make the motion that you want to you
want to sit there and go backwards on
the contract for the verbiage from the
it's not going
backwards to go back to the original
why don't you go the one-year
contract why force him to sign something
when he doesn't know what he's going to
get next year
make that motion it's one year it's 3%
proposed one-year contract with J value
over 3% raise in the first
years. I'm going to second that. I'll
second uh Dina seconded. Um any further
discussion? All those in favor? Before
you answer that, is that acceptable to
you, J?
um if it's accepted by you guys
depending on do I have
uh time to think about it.
Sure.
You go to 131,
right?
All those
faire. All those
opposed. All those same.
You're opposed. You're
slow. All right. Uh 32. Uh Jay, uh right
now the board of select men is willing
to offer you a one-year contract with 3%
increase that gets you to
94,000. No
97,000. What's the number?
I don't feel that we should be promising
something two years
out. We've never done it in the past and
I don't want to do that.
Uh
97,534. Okay. Do we have anything else
for
Ch please? Uh thank you for taking the
time to visit us. Thank you.
Okay.
Um item
four. We're going to move on to item
five. discuss the committee and senator
would you like this public or an
executive session? I guess everything is
all in public now. So it doesn't need to
be test
um I I have nothing to hide. So let's do
it in that fine.
We pretty much had an executive session.
We just added it in case you wanted.
Yeah. No, I think okay. So act senior
sign of contract director contract. So
um well the current contract of the
senior center director is a two-year
contract. So it doesn't expire in this
cycle. So I guess my question is what
are what do we want to discuss?
I just think that I mean not exactly
expected. So
I just some of the feedback and the
information that we've
received. Um I just don't think that the
senior center has progressed to where it
should be after nine months. and the
programs that are there are programs
that were in
place
and the new programs there there's no
Facebook certain things that were
brought up during public session of our
meeting last
week there's still not still have
nothing has been done or we just haven't
heard about it
so I just don't think that where we're
we should be with a new
community/cenior
center after 9
months almost nine months. It's not
quite nine months.
Okay. So
where are we? Well, that's why that's
why I made the motion to extend it after
six months because I wanted to see I
mean I realized that she started with a
brand new position with a brand new
center and I I thought it was great for
another three months to see where we
progressed.
Okay. And we had discussion at the the
meeting that we held last
Wednesday. Is there anything additional
that we need to deal with
other than holding her accountable to
what we had a very thorough?
Okay. Anybody want to do anything?
Anybody?
So I move that the appointment of Tesl
currently serving as community and
senior center director be terminated
immediately. Okay. Is anyone going to
second that? Yes. All right. Further
discussion. I have no idea why we're
doing it. Why we're bringing this up,
but that's not not for me to sit there
and deal with. Um, anybody
else? All right. All those in favor?
All those
folks? Um I I'm just going to make a
point of this that all further types of
meetings like this and anything that
this group this board wants to do be
done at their regular meetings. Um
that's
I can't sincerely apologize
more people are taking the director away
from the town.
Okay.
And when does that end? Immediately. I
have no idea. Okay. I will sit there and
get with you tomorrow. I guess
tomorrow's Friday, right? Um yeah,
tomorrow is Friday. But she said
immediately. So, um I can go
path my office tonight.
Um
Kim, we're gonna be by yourselves
tomorrow. Sorry.
Okay. Um well, we're not going into
executive session.
That's
bothers. We're going to move out of
public speak.
I cannot believe the three of you who
are elected to represent the community
could behave like this. I hope you have
very good grounds for doing this because
she should sue you because
you'll avoid her contract and unless
you've given her grounds for firing her,
you've put the town in a bad
spot. She has started working with very
little and as you heard tonight, she has
done so much for this community. I don't
know who you want to put in charge over
there, but I'm sure you have an agenda
because the three of you are thickest
thieves. You're not representing people.
You're just sticking together and not
doing the right thing for the people.
But in two years, the people can vote
you up, which is what they need to
do. I'm I'm ashamed that you're
represent the board of select men.
And uh with Jay again, he has a year
contract. Hopefully he'll be here a year
or two, but again, you put the town in
bad spot. We finally are moving forward
and for some reason you don't want that.
I don't understand it. You heard I don't
know how many people spoke in favor of
it, but you just aren't representing the
taxpayer Vandal.
Miss Michelle,
I agree with Mr. Roa.
Um, cost of
living since everything's gone up. We
need somebody like Jay. I know we're
keeping him, but we need somebody to
help us run our town, our roads. And
Tess, I really don't know her
personally, but during co I've worked
volunteered with the seniors because
nobody else wanted to take them to their
doctor's appointments and I I helped
out. Um it was just a a thing personal
to do to help out your community.
um on that where I'm a senior but my mom
is and the thing is is that I feel that
I like what Kathy did and if tax has
taken over for Kathy and has improved
and seniors are going that was one of
the purpose to getting a community
senior center for the seniors they
fought for it they wanted to go to
school but the parents fought against
them to go to school so they can have
their own place now they have their own
place who's going to run
Julia, I have a question. What was this
original contract for lengthwise?
Two years. How much? Two years.
She hasn't even finished. Why would you
cut her off at this point when she's
doing a fantastic job? The seniors can
tell us
All I can say is
and I'm
speechless. Never
expected disgusting period.
I don't know.
I'm actually
Thank you for volunteering. Absolutely.
My classes Saturday. Um I'm not sure the
history. I know some of you guys
um where am I going to go for birthday
party? No. Can you guys just rethink it?
And can you please
please? It's it's it's one thing to
maybe let her finish this
year. It's it's I can't imagine being
jobless. Just look to your heart. At
least let him finish year out.
Good evening. I I I don't even know
where to begin. Um I I am so so
disappointed in the board of select
minute. Um I think this is very um
shortsighted and I I don't know what
this is all about. But I suspect that
there's some underlying issues going on
here. Um, but basically I'm just
speechless and very disappointed. Thank
you.
Same thing. And Sherry,
can you hear me? Oh, yeah. Okay. I have
nothing to add. Thank you,
Kimberly.
Uh, nothing right now. Thank you, Joey
Neighbor.
Just a couple comments and I appreciate
the time. Um, I want to say to the
town's people that I mean, obviously
we're all here and we're taking this all
in. We have to understand that the board
of selectmen held a meeting last week
and they spent over two hours with um
the community slash senior center
director. Um so I don't know what was
said in the executive session but they
probably did do their due diligence and
due process at that time to come to some
of the conclusions that they came to. So
again I wasn't privy. I stood out in the
hallway with Jerry Crema for two hours
until he needed to leave and then I
needed to leave. Um it's very difficult
and hard in these forums that we all
volunteer in. I am on the board of
finance. Um so let's just give them a
little credit for having taken the time
and coming to some conclusions that they
came to. I would being a person that has
a heart too and I'm not saying anybody
doesn't maybe give some kind of a a
timeline you know for someone to prepare
for something like this. So I don't know
where the timeline was but that's my
only thought on that. Um my suggestion
earlier in the evening making or having
these contracts be
yeartoyear and maybe have a little less
perks if there's going to be someone
that's a part-time position. I still
stand by. We're not doing a disservice
to someone if we offer them a one-year
contract with a 3% raise. And I mean, I
didn't know the history of this salary,
which has raised quite a bit. Um, so I
appreciate that being brought to the
table. Um, it's a very valuable
position, the the director of public
works or the supervisor of public works.
Um, so it's nothing personal with having
a one-year contract. It's just my
opinion working in HR. I just think they
work well. Um, the other thing that I
wanted to say is again, and I kind of
wanted to refrain from this tonight, but
it was there in full force. Um, you all
do have our town administrator who
represents you, and I know the board of
selectmen, you know, are the leaders of
the town. We have a town administrator.
So, I would just caution him from being
so one-sided in these things. And I I as
an employee, I would appreciate a boss
that is totally on my side. You know, he
needs to sit in union negotiations,
which he will be doing and which was
pointed out tonight. We can't come to a
conclusion that these are done set. I
want to see a fair process in our town.
That's what happens when I sit on both
sides of the table. You know, I take
them seriously. So, it's not a done deal
yet that things are done. you know,
please go through the process with an
open mind. Um, negotiate with your
workers, negotiate with your union
employees, but bring someone to the
table who is representing the management
side of things. You know, these raises
and and things have come up. So, that's
all I want to say. This has been, you
know, it's a hard process to go through.
So, so please, as a management
representative, please bring the
management side. Um, and lastly, I just
wanted to reach out to Elaine Bukart,
who, you know, I respect so much and I,
um, I don't think we have a problem with
the board of finance versus the board of
selectmen. I just happen if I speak out,
I just speak out because that's what I
do. I take my role on the board of
finance seriously. I do a lot of
research. I bring things to the table.
I'm going to bring my thoughts, but I
respect everybody that's there. We're
all We all have a hard job to do. So,
thank you for what you're doing. Um,
those are my comments.
You good?
Yeah. Um, I'm
appalled. I I don't know what to say at
this point. I don't know what the next
plan is. That's what I'd like to know.
I'm supposed to go there tomorrow to
help do a lunch and and I have no idea
what's going to happen. Um, I used to
rent property. I own property and I used
to rent it out to tenants and you know
like a store and I always gave them at
least a year to like prove themselves
and you didn't even give her 14 months
and she she started in um with hardly
anything and I've watched it through the
process. I was there watching. A lot of
these people, a lot of other people who
are speaking were not there watching and
helping. So, I can't see how they can
have a valid reason for doing what they
did. I'm really appalled and I'm so
sorry, Tess. And I plan on coming to
help you, Kim, tomorrow. So, don't worry
about it. I'm still there for you.
Surprise.
Good.
Okay. I make a motion that we adjourn
this meeting.
Second Carol.